.. index::
	single: FAQ
	see: Frequently asked questions; FAQ

**************************
Frequently Asked Questions
**************************

This is a list of Frequently Asked Questions about the Data Selector tool. Feel free to suggest new entries!

General questions
=================

**How do I get a copy of the tool?**

	The source code as well as the installer setups can be downloaded from GitHub (`MapInfo <https://github.com/LERCAutomation/DataSelector-MapInfo/releases>`_ or `ArcGIS <https://github.com/LERCAutomation/DataSelector---ArcObjects/releases>`_). Please ensure that you use the correct configuration file, examples copy of which are also included with the releases.

**Can several people use the tool at the same time?**

	Any number of users can use the tool if they have a copy of the tool installed or loaded in their own copy of ArcGIS or MapInfo. Where outputs are written to a central (network) location, it is important to ensure that no two users are saving to the same files at the same time as this can lead to unexpected results.

**Does the tool work with QGIS?**

	Currently only ArcGIS and MapInfo implementations of the tool exist. However, if funding was available the tool could be adapted to also support QGIS.

Operating the tool
==================

**One of the SQL Server tables I want to use isn't showing in the form. How do I get it to show up?**

	This issue can arise in several ways:

	- The layer isn't loaded in your GIS document or workspace. In this case, a :ref:`message will pop up <figlaunchwarningArcGIS>` before the form is displayed informing you the layer isn't loaded. Add the layer to GIS and restart the tool and the problem should be resolved.
	- The layer isn't listed in the XML configuration document. Please refer to the :doc:`setup <../setup/setup>` section and add it as a map layer.
	- The map layer is listed in the configuration document, but the 'LayerName' is spelled incorrectly. Note that the name must follow the exact format of the name of the layer in the current GIS document or active workspace (in ArcGIS the name is also case sensitive).

**I got an error message about a SQL error**

	If there is an error in any of the selection criteria (i.e. the 'Columns', 'Where', 'Group By' or 'Order By' fields) then a SQL error message may appear. The contents of the message will vary between MapInfo and ArcGIS but both will contain some information about the nature of the SQL error. The details of the error are generated by SQL Server and will generally be specific to the nature of the error (e.g. 'Incorrect syntax near ...' or 'Invalid column name ...'), but they can sometimes be more cryptic.


Tool issues
===========

**How do I report a new bug or propose a change in the tool?**

	Please check the existing known issues and change requests on the LERCAutomation pages on GitHub (`ArcGIS <https://github.com/LERCAutomation/DataSelector---ArcObjects/issues>`_, `MapInfo <https://github.com/LERCAutomation/DataSelector-MapInfo>`_) before reporting/proposing new issues or changes. If you have a new issue or request you can submit it there and it will be picked up by the developers. Alternatively, you can email suggestions to `Hester <mailto:Hester@HesterLyonsConsulting.co.uk>`_ or `Andy <mailto:Andy@AndyFoyConsulting.co.uk>`_. 
